.\" yum - Yellowdog Updater Modified
.TH "yum" "8" ""  "Seth Vidal" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum \- Yellowdog Updater Modified
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum\fP [options] [command] [package ...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum\fP is an interactive, rpm based, package manager. It can automatically
perform system updates, including dependency analysis and obsolete processing
based on "repository" metadata. It can also perform installation of new
packages, removal of old packages and perform queries on the installed and/or
available packages among many other commands/services (see below)\&. \fByum\fP
is similar to other high level package managers like apt\-get and smart\&.
.PP
While there are some graphical interfaces directly to the \fByum\fP code, more
recent graphical interface development is happening with PackageKit and the
gnome\-packagekit application\&.
.PP 
\fIcommand\fP is one of:
.br 
.I \fR * install package1 [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * update [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * update-to [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * update-minimal [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * check\-update
.br 
.I \fR * upgrade [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * upgrade-to [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * distribution-synchronization [package1] [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * remove | erase package1 [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * autoremove [package1] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * list [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * info [\&.\&.\&.]
.br 
.I \fR * provides  | whatprovides feature1 [feature2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br  
.I \fR * clean [ packages | metadata | expire-cache | rpmdb | plugins | all ]
.br
.I \fR * makecache [fast]
.br
.I \fR * groups  [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * search string1 [string2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * shell [filename]
.br
.I \fR * resolvedep dep1 [dep2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
    (maintained for legacy reasons only - use repoquery or yum provides)
.br
.I \fR * localinstall rpmfile1 [rpmfile2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
    (maintained for legacy reasons only - use install)
.br
.I \fR * localupdate rpmfile1 [rpmfile2] [\&.\&.\&.]
    (maintained for legacy reasons only - use update)
.br
.I \fR * reinstall package1 [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * downgrade package1 [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * deplist package1 [package2] [\&.\&.\&.] 
.br
.I \fR * repolist [all|enabled|disabled] 
.br
.I \fR * repoinfo [all|enabled|disabled] 
.br
.I \fR * repository-packages <enabled-repoid> <install|remove|remove-or-reinstall|remove-or-distribution-synchronization> [package2] [\&.\&.\&.]
.br
.I \fR * version [ all | installed | available | group-* | nogroups* | grouplist | groupinfo ]
.br
.I \fR * history [info|list|packages-list|packages-info|summary|addon-info|redo|undo|rollback|new|sync|stats] 
.br
.I \fR * load-transaction [txfile]
.br
.I \fR * updateinfo [summary | list | info | remove-pkgs-ts | exclude-updates | exclude-all | check-running-kernel]
.br
.I \fR * fssnapshot [summary | list | have-space | create | delete]
.br
.I \fR * fs [filters | refilter | refilter-cleanup | du]
.br
.I \fR * check
.br 
.I \fR * help [command] 
.br
.PP 
Unless the \-\-help or \-h option is given, one of the above commands
must be present\&.
.PP
Repository configuration is honored in all operations.
.PP 
.IP "\fBinstall\fP"
Is used to install the latest version of a package or
group of packages while ensuring that all dependencies are
satisfied\&.  (See \fBSpecifying package names\fP for more information) 
If no package matches the given package name(s), they are assumed to be a shell 
glob and any matches are then installed\&. If the name starts with @^ then it
is treated as an environment group (group install @^foo), an @ character and
it's treated as a group (plain group install)\&.

If the name starts with a "-" character, then a search is done within the
transaction and any matches are removed. Note that Yum options use the same
syntax and it may be necessary to use "--" to resolve any possible conflicts.

If the name is a file, then install works
like localinstall\&. If the name doesn't match a package, then package
"provides" are searched (e.g. "_sqlitecache.so()(64bit)") as are
filelists (Eg. "/usr/bin/yum"). Also note that for filelists, wildcards will
match multiple packages\&.

Because install does a lot of work to make it as easy as possible to use, there
are also a few specific install commands "\fBinstall-n\fP", "\fBinstall-na\fP"
and "\fBinstall-nevra\fP". These only work on package names, and do not process
wildcards etc.
.IP 
.IP "\fBupdate\fP"
If run without any packages, update will update every currently
installed package.  If one or more packages or package globs are specified, Yum will
only update the listed packages\&.  While updating packages, \fByum\fP
will ensure that all dependencies are satisfied\&. (See \fBSpecifying package names\fP for more information) 
If the packages or globs specified match to packages which are not currently installed then update will
not install them\&. update operates on groups, files, provides and filelists
just like the "install" command\&.

If the main obsoletes configure option is true (default) or the \-\-obsoletes
flag is present \fByum\fP will include package 
obsoletes in its calculations - this makes it better for distro\-version 
changes, for example: upgrading from somelinux 8.0 to somelinux 9.

Note that "\fBupdate\fP" works on installed packages first, and only if there
are no matches does it look for available packages. The difference is most
noticeable when you do "\fBupdate\fP foo-1-2" which will act exactly as
"\fBupdate\fP foo" if foo-1-2 is installed. You can use the "\fBupdate-to\fP"
if you'd prefer that nothing happen in the above case.
.IP 
.IP "\fBupdate-to\fP"
This command works like "\fBupdate\fP" but always specifies the version of the
package we want to update to.
.IP 
.IP "\fBupdate-minimal\fP"
This works like the update command, but if you have the package foo-1
installed and have foo-2 (bugfix) and foo-3 (enhancement) available with
updateinfo.xml then update-minimal --bugfix will update you to foo-2.
.IP 
.IP "\fBcheck\-update\fP"
Implemented so you could know if your machine had any updates that needed to
be applied without running it interactively. Returns exit value of 100 if
there are packages available for an update. Also returns a list of the packages
to be updated in list format. Returns 0 if no packages are available for
update. Returns 1 if an error occurred.
Running in verbose mode also shows obsoletes.
.IP
.IP "\fBupgrade\fP"
Is the same as the update command with the \-\-obsoletes flag set. See update 
for more details.
.IP 
.IP "\fBupgrade-to\fP"
This command works like "\fBupgrade\fP" but always specifies the version of the
package we want to update to.
.IP 
.IP "\fBdistribution\-synchronization\fP or \fBdistro\-sync\fP"
Synchronizes the installed package set with the latest packages available, this
is done by either obsoleting, upgrading or downgrading as appropriate. This will
"normally" do the same thing as the upgrade command however if you have the
package FOO installed at version 4, and the latest available is only
version 3, then this command will \fBdowngrade\fP FOO to version 3.

If you give the optional argument "full", then the command will also reinstall
packages where the install checksum and the available checksum do not match. And
remove old packages (can be used to sync. rpmdb versions). The optional argument
"different" can be used to specify the default operation.

This command does not perform operations on groups, local packages or negative
selections.
.IP 
.IP "\fBremove\fP or \fBerase\fP"
Are used to remove the specified packages from the system
as well as removing any packages which depend on the package being
removed\&. remove operates on groups, files, provides and filelists just like
the "install" command\&.(See \fBSpecifying package names\fP for more information) 

Note that "yum" is included in the protected_packages configuration, by default.
So you can't accidentally remove yum itself.

The remove_leaf_only configuration changes the behaviour of this command
to only remove packages which aren't required by something else.

The clean_requirements_on_remove configuration changes the behaviour of this
command to also remove packages that are only dependencies of this package.

Because remove does a lot of work to make it as easy as possible to use, there
are also a few specific remove commands "\fBremove-n\fP", "\fBremove-na\fP"
and "\fBremove-nevra\fP". These only work on package names, and do not process
wildcards etc.
.IP 
.IP "\fBautoremove\fP"
.IP 
With one or more arguments this command works like running the "\fBremove\fP"
command with the clean_requirements_on_remove turned on. However you can also
specify no arguments, at which point it tries to remove any packages that
weren't installed explicitly by the user and which aren't required by
anything (so called leaf packages).

Because autoremove does a lot of work to make it as easy as possible to use,
there are also a few specific autoremove commands "\fBautoremove-n\fP", 
"\fBautoremove-na\fP" and "\fBautoremove-nevra\fP". These only work on package
names, and do not process wildcards etc.
.IP "\fBlist\fP"
Is used to list various information about available
packages; more complete details are available in the \fIList Options\fP
section below\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fBprovides\fP or \fBwhatprovides\fP"
Is used to find out which package provides some feature
or file. Just use a specific name or a file-glob-syntax wildcards to list
the packages available or installed that provide that feature or file\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fBsearch\fP"
This is used to find packages when you know something about the package but
aren't sure of it's name. By default search will try searching just package
names and summaries, but if that "fails" it will then try descriptions and url.

Yum search orders the results so that those packages matching more terms will
appear first.

You can force searching everything by specifying "all" as the first argument.
.IP 
.IP "\fBinfo\fP"
Is used to list a description and summary information about available
packages; takes the same arguments as in the \fIList Options\fP
section below\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fBclean\fP"
Is used to clean up various things which accumulate in the
\fByum\fP cache directory over time.  More complete details can be found in
the \fIClean Options\fP section below\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fBmakecache\fP"
Is used to download and make usable all the metadata for the currently enabled
\fByum\fP repos. If the argument "fast" is passed, then we just try to make
sure the repos. are current (much like "yum clean expire-cache").
.IP 
.IP "\fBgroups\fP"
A command, new in 3.4.2, that collects all the subcommands that act on groups
together. Note that recent yum using distributions (Fedora-19+, RHEL-7+) have
configured group_command=objects which changes how group commands act in some
important ways.

"\fBgroup install\fP" is used to install all of the individual packages in a
group, of the specified types (this works as if you'd taken each of those
package names and put them on the command line for a "yum install" command).
 The group_package_types configuration option specifies which types will
be installed.
 If you wish to "reinstall" a group so that you get a package that is currently
blacklisted the easiest way to do that currently is to install the package
manually and then run "groups mark packages-sync mygroup mypackagename" (or
use yumdb to set the group_member of the package(s)).

"\fBgroup update\fP" is just an alias for group install, when using
group_command=compat. This will install packages in the group not already
installed and upgrade existing packages. With group_command=simple it will just
upgrade already installed packages. With group_command=objects it will try to
upgrade the group object, installing any available packages not blacklisted
(marked '-' in group info) and will upgrade the installed packages.

"\fBgroup list\fP" is used to list the available groups from all \fByum\fP
repos. When group_command=objects the group is installed if the user
explicitly installed it (or used the group mark* commands to mark it installed).
It does not need to have any packages installed.
When not using group_command=objects groups are shown as "installed" if all
mandatory packages are installed, or if a group doesn't
have any mandatory packages then it is installed if any of the optional or
default package are installed (when not in group_command=objects mode).
You can pass optional arguments to the list/summary commands: installed,
available, environment, language, packages, hidden and ids (or any of those
prefixed by "no" to turn them off again).
If you pass the \-v option, to enable verbose mode, then the groupids are
displayed by default (but "yum group list ids" is often easier to read).

"\fBgroup remove\fP" is used to remove all of the packages in a group, unlike "groupinstall" this
will remove everything regardless of group_package_types. It is worth pointing
out that packages can be in more than one group, so "group install X Y" followed
by "group remove Y" does not do give you the same result as "group install X".

The groupremove_leaf_only configuration changes the behaviour of this command
to only remove packages which aren't required by something else.

"\fBgroup info\fP" is used to give the description and package list of a group (and which type
those packages are marked as). Note that you can use the yum-filter-data and
yum-list-data plugins to get/use the data the other way around (i.e. what
groups own packages need updating). If you pass the \-v option, to enable verbose
mode, then the package names are matched against installed/available packages
similar to the list command.

When using group_command=objects, the info command will display markers next
to each package saying how that package relates to the group object. The
meaning of these markers is:

.br
"-" = Package isn't installed, and won't be installed as part of the group (Eg.  "yum group install foo -pkgA" or "yum group install foo; yum remove pkgA" … this will have pkgA marked as '-')
.br
"+" = Package isn't installed, but will be the next time you run "yum upgrade" or "yum group upgrade foo"
.br
" " = Package is installed, but wasn't installed via the group (so "group remove foo" won't remove it).
.br
"=" = Package is installed, and was installed via the group.

you can move an installed package into an installed group using either
"group mark package-sync/package-sync-forced" or "yumdb set group_member".

"\fBgroup summary\fP" is used to give a quick summary of how many groups
are installed and available.

"\fBgroup mark\fP" and "\fBgroup unmark\fP" are used when groups are configured
in group_command=objects mode. These commands then allow you to alter yum's idea
of which groups are installed, and the packages that belong to them.

"\fBgroup mark install\fP" mark the group as installed. When
installed "\fByum upgrade\fP" and "\fByum group upgrade\fP" will install new
packages for the group (only those packages already installed will be marked as
members of the installed group to start with).

"\fBgroup mark remove\fP" the opposite of mark install.

"\fBgroup mark packages\fP" takes a group id (which must be installed) and marks
any given installed packages (which aren't members of a group) as members of
the group. Note that the data from the repositories does not need to specify
the packages as a member of the group.

"\fBgroup mark packages-force\fP" works like mark packages, but doesn't care if
the packages are already members of another group.

"\fBgroup mark blacklist\fP" will blacklist all packages marked to be installed
for a group. After this command a "yum group upgrade" will not install any new
packages as part of the group.

"\fBgroup mark convert-blacklist\fP"

"\fBgroup mark convert-whitelist\fP"

"\fBgroup mark convert\fP" converts the automatic data you get
without using groups as objects into groups as objects data, in other words
this will make "yum --setopt=group_command=objects groups list" look as similar
as possible to the current output of
"yum --setopt=group_command=simple groups list". This makes it much
easier to convert to groups as objects without having to reinstall. For groups
that are installed the whitelist variant will mark all uninstalled packages for
the group as to be installed on the next "yum group upgrade", the blacklist
variant (current default) will mark them all as blacklisted.

"\fBgroup unmark packages\fP" remove a package as a member from any groups.
.IP
.IP "\fBshell\fP"
Is used to enter the 'yum shell', when a filename is specified the contents of
that file is executed in yum shell mode. See \fIyum-shell(8)\fP for more info.
.IP
.IP "\fBresolvedep\fP"
Is used to list packages providing the specified dependencies, at most one
package is listed per dependency. This command is maintained for legacy
reasons only, use repoquery instead.
.IP
.IP "\fBlocalinstall\fP"
Is used to install a set of local rpm files. If required the enabled 
repositories will be used to resolve dependencies. Note that the install command
will do a local install, if given a filename. This command is maintained for legacy
reasons only.
.IP
.IP "\fBlocalupdate\fP"
Is used to update the system by specifying local rpm files. Only the specified 
rpm files of which an older version is already installed will be installed,
the remaining specified packages will be ignored.
If required the enabled repositories will be used to resolve dependencies. Note
that the update command will do a local update, if given a filename. This command is maintained for
legacy reasons only.
.IP
.IP "\fBreinstall\fP"
Will reinstall the identically versioned package as is currently installed. 
This does not work for "installonly" packages, like Kernels. reinstall operates
on groups, files, provides and filelists just like the "install" command\&.
.IP
.IP "\fBdowngrade\fP"
Will try and downgrade a package from the version currently installed to the
previously highest version (or the specified version).
The depsolver will not necessarily work, but if you specify all the packages it
should work (thus, all the simple cases will work). Also this does not
work for "installonly" packages, like Kernels. downgrade operates
on groups, files, provides, filelists and rpm files just like the "install" command\&.
.IP
.IP "\fBswap\fP"
At it's simplest this is just a simpler way to remove one set of package(s) and
install another set of package(s) without having to use the "shell" command.
However you can specify different commands to call than just remove or install,
and you can list multiple packages (it splits using the "--" marker).
Note that option parsing will remove the first "--" in an argument list on the
command line.


Examples:

.nf
swap foo bar
swap -- remove foo -- install bar
swap foo group install bar-grp
swap -- group remove foo-grp -- group install bar-grp
.fi
.IP
.IP "\fBdeplist\fP"
Produces a list of all dependencies and what packages provide those
dependencies for the given packages. As of 3.2.30 it now just shows the latest
version of each package that matches (this can be changed by
using --showduplicates) and it only shows the newest providers (which can be
changed by using --verbose).
.IP
.IP "\fBrepolist\fP"
Produces a list of configured repositories. The default is to list all
enabled repositories. If you pass \-v, for verbose mode, or use repoinfo then
more information is listed. If the first argument is \'enabled\', \'disabled\'
or \'all\' then the command will list those types of repos.

You can pass repo id or name arguments, or wildcards which to match against
both of those. However if the id or name matches exactly then the repo will
be listed even if you are listing enabled repos. and it is disabled.

In non-verbose mode the first column will start with a \'*\' if the repo. has
metalink data and the latest metadata is not local and will start with a
\'!\' if the repo. has metadata that is expired (this can happen due to
metadata_expire_filter). For non-verbose mode the
last column will also display the number of packages in the repo. and (if there
are any user specified excludes) the number of packages excluded.

One last special feature of repolist, is that if you are in non-verbose mode
then yum will ignore any repo errors and output the information it can get
(Eg. "yum clean all; yum -C repolist" will output something, although the
package counts/etc. will be zeroed out).
.IP
.IP "\fBrepoinfo\fP"
.IP
This command works exactly like repolist -v.
.IP
.IP "\fBrepository\-packages\fP"
Treat a repo. as a collection of packages (like "yum groups") allowing the user
to install or remove them as a single entity.

"repository\-packages <repo> list" - Works like the "yum list" command, but
only shows packages from the given repository.

"repository\-packages <repo> info" - Works like the "yum info" command, but
only shows packages from the given repository.

"repository\-packages <repo> check-update" - Works like the
"yum check-update" command, but only shows packages from the given repository.

"repository\-packages <repo> install" - Install all of the packages in the
repository, basically the same as: yum install $(repoquery --repoid=<repo> -a).
Specific packages/wildcards can be specified.

"repository\-packages <repo> upgrade" - Update all of the packages in the
repository, basically the same as: yum upgrade $(repoquery --repoid=<repo> -a).
Specific packages/wildcards can be specified.

"repository\-packages <repo> upgrade-to" - Update all of the packages in the
repository, basically the same as: yum upgrade $(repoquery --repoid=<repo> -a).
Without arguments it works the same as upgrade, with arguments it just
interprets them as the versions you want to move to.

"repository\-packages <repo> reinstall-old" - ReInstall all of the packages 
that are installed from the repository and available in the
repository, similar to: yum reinstall $(yumdb search-quiet from_repo <repo>).

"repository\-packages <repo> move-to" - ReInstall all of the packages 
that are available in the repository, basically the same as:
yum reinstall $(repoquery --repoid=<repo> -a).

"repository\-packages <repo> reinstall" - Tries to do reinstall-old, but if that
produces no packages then tries move-to.

"repo\-pkgs <repo> remove" - Remove all of the packages in the repository, very
similar to: yum remove $(repoquery --repoid=<repo> -a). However the
repopkgsremove_leaf_only option is obeyed.

"repo\-pkgs <repo> remove-or-reinstall" - Works like remove for any package
that doesn't have the exact same version in another repository. For any package
that does have the exact NEVRA in another repository then that version will be
reinstalled.

"repo\-pkgs <repo> remove-or-distro-sync" - Works like remove for any package
that doesn't exist in another repository. For any package that does exist
it tries to work as if distro-sync was called (with the repo. disabled).

.IP
.IP "\fBversion\fP"
Produces a "version" of the rpmdb, and of the enabled repositories if "all" is
given as the first argument. You can also specify version groups in the
version-groups configuration file. If you pass \-v, for verbose mode, more
information is listed. The version is calculated by taking an SHA1 hash of the
packages (in sorted order), and the checksum_type/checksum_data entries from
the yumdb. Note that this rpmdb version is now also used significantly within
yum (esp. in yum history).

The version command will now show "groups" of packages as a separate version,
and so takes sub-commands:

"version grouplist" - List the defined version groups.

"version groupinfo" - Get the complete list of packages within one or more version groups.

"version installed" - This is the default, only show the version information for installed packages.

"version available" - Only show the version information for available packages.

"version all" - Show the version information for installed and available packages.

"version nogroups | nogroups-*" - Just show the main version information.

"version group-*" - Just show the grouped version information, if more arguments are given then only show the data for those groups.

.IP
.IP "\fBhistory\fP"
The history command allows the user to view what has happened in past
transactions (assuming the history_record config. option is set). You can use
info/list/packages-list/packages-info/summary to view what happened,
undo/redo/rollback to act on that information and new to start a new history
file.

The info/list/summary commands take either a transaction id or a package (with
wildcards, as in \fBSpecifying package names\fP), all three can also be passed
no arguments. list can be passed the keyword "all" to list all the transactions.

The packages-list/packages-info commands takes a package  (with wildcards, as in
\fBSpecifying package names\fP). And show data from the point of view of that
package.

The undo/redo/rollback commands take either a single transaction id or the
keyword last and an offset from the last transaction (Eg. if you've done 250
transactions, "last" refers to transaction 250, and "last-4" refers to
transaction 246).
The redo command can also take some optional arguments before you specify the
transaction. "force-reinstall" tells it reinstall any packages that were
installed in that transaction (via install, upgrade or downgrade).
"force-remove" tells it to forcibly remove any packages that were updated or
downgraded.

The undo/redo commands act on the specified transaction, undo'ing or repeating
the work of that transaction. While the rollback command will undo all
transactions up to the point of the specified transaction. For example, if you
have 3 transactions, where package A; B and C where installed respectively.
Then "undo 1" will try to remove package A, "redo 1" will try to install package
A (if it is not still installed), and "rollback 1" will try to remove packages
B and C. Note that after a "rollback 1" you will have a fourth transaction,
although the ending rpmdb version (see: yum version) should be the same in
transactions 1 and 4.

The addon-info command takes a transaction ID, and the packages-list command
takes a package (with wildcards).

The stats command shows some statistics about the current history DB.

The sync commands allows you to change the rpmdb/yumdb data stored for any
installed packages, to whatever is in the current rpmdb/yumdb (this is mostly
useful when this data was not stored when the package went into the history DB).

In "history list" you can change the behaviour of the 2nd column via the
configuration option history_list_view.

In "history list" output the Altered column also gives some extra information
if there was something not good with the transaction (this is also shown at the
end of the package column in the packages-list command).

.br
.I \fB>\fR - The rpmdb was changed, outside yum, after the transaction.
.br
.I \fB<\fR - The rpmdb was changed, outside yum, before the transaction.
.br
.I \fB*\fR - The transaction aborted before completion.
.br
.I \fB#\fR - The transaction completed, but with a non-zero status.
.br
.I \fBE\fR - The transaction completed fine, but had warning/error output during the transaction.
.br
.I \fBP\fR - The transaction completed fine, but problems already existed in the rpmdb.
.br
.I \fBs\fR - The transaction completed fine, but --skip-broken was enabled and had to skip some packages.
.br


.IP
.IP "\fBload-transaction\fP"
This command will re-load a saved yum transaction file, this allows you to
run a transaction on one machine and then use it on another.
The two common ways to get a saved yum transaction file are from
"yum -q history addon-info last saved_tx" or via the automatic saves in
$TMPDIR/yum_save_tx.* when a transaction is solved but not run.

Running the command without an argument, or a directory as an argument will
try and list the possible files available to load. Showing if the packages are
still available, if the rpmdb matches the current rpmdb, how many transaction
install/removes members are in the saved transaction and what the filename is.

.IP
.IP "\fBupdateinfo\fP"
This command has a bunch of sub-commands to act on the updateinfo in the
repositories. The simplest commands are:

.br
.I \fR yum updateinfo info [all | available | installed | updates]
.br 
.I \fR yum updateinfo list [all | available | installed | updates]
.br 
.I \fR yum updateinfo [summary] [all | available | installed | updates]
.br 

which all display information about the available update information relevant
to your machine (including anything installed, if you supply "all").
.br

.br
.I \fR "\fB* all\fP"
Is used to display information about both install and available advisories.
.br
.I \fR "\fB* available\fP"
Is used to display information about just available advisories. This is the
default.
.br
.I \fR "\fB* installed\fP"
Is used to display information about just install advisories.
.br
.I \fR "\fB* updates\fP"
This is mostly the same as "available" but it only shows advisory information
for packages that can be updated to.


.br
They all take as arguments:

.br
.br
.I \fR "\fB* <advisory> [advisory...]\fP"
Is used to display information about one or more advisories.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* <package> [package...]\fP"
Is used to display information about one or more packages.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* bugzillas / bzs\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to the bugzillas.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* cves\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to the CVEs.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* enhancement\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to enhancements.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* bugfix\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to bugfixes.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* security / sec\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to security.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* severity / sev\fP"
Include security relevant packages of this severity.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* recommended\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to recommended updates.

.br
.I \fR "\fB* new-packages\fP"
Is the subset of the updateinfo information, pertaining to new packages. These
are packages which weren't available at the initial release of your
distribution.
.br

There are also three sub-commands to remove packages when using "yum shell", 
they are:

.br
.I \fR yum updateinfo remove-pkgs-ts

.br 
.I \fR yum updateinfo exclude-updates

.br 
.I \fR yum updateinfo exclude-all
.br 

they all take the following arguments:

.br
.I \fR* [bzs=foo] [advisories=foo] [cves=foo] [security-severity=foo] [security] [bugfix]
.br 

and finally there is a command to manually check the running kernel against
updateinfo data:

.br
.I \fR yum updateinfo check-running-kernel
.br 

.IP
.IP "\fBfssnapshot\fP"
This command has a few sub-commands to act on the LVM data of the host, to list
snapshots and the create and remove them. The simplest commands, to display
information about the configured LVM snapshotable devices, are:

.br 
.I \fR yum fssnapshot [summary]
.br 
.I \fR yum fssnapshot list
.br
.I \fR yum fssnapshot have-space
.br

then you can create and delete snapshots using:

.br
.I \fR yum fssnap create
.br 
.I \fR yum fssnap delete <device(s)>
.br 

.br
Configuration Options: \fBfssnap_automatic_pre\fP, \fBfssnap_automatic_post\fP, \fBfssnap_automatic_keep\fP, \fBfssnap_percentage\fP, \fBfssnap_devices\fP

.IP
.IP "\fBfs\fP"
This command has a few sub-commands to act on the filesystem data of the host,
mainly for removing languages/documentation for minimal installs:

.br 
.I \fR yum fs filters

.br 
.I \fR yum fs filter languages en:es

.br 
.I \fR yum fs filter documentation

.br 
.I \fR yum fs refilter [package(s)]

.br 
.I \fR yum fs refilter-cleanup [package(s)]

.br 
.I \fR yum fs du [path]

.br 
.I \fR yum fs status [path]

.br 
.I \fR yum fs diff [path]


the first 3 being a simple interface to change yum.conf altering the tsflags
and override_install_langs configurations. The refilter command is an optimized
way of calling "yum reinstall" to reinstall the packages with the new filters
applied. The refilter-cleanup command is needed because rpm doesn't actually
remove the files on reinstall, as it should. And the du/status/diff commands are
included so you can easily see the space used/saved and any other changes.

.IP
.IP "\fBcheck\fP"
Checks the local rpmdb and produces information on any problems it finds. You
can pass the check command the arguments "dependencies", "duplicates", "obsoletes" or "provides",
to limit the checking that is performed (the default is "all" which does all).

The info command can also take ranges of transaction ids, of the form
start..end, which will then display a merged history as if all the
transactions in the range had happened at once\&.
.br
Eg. "history info 1..4" will merge the first four transactions and display them
as a single transaction.
.IP
.IP "\fBhelp\fP"
Produces help, either for all commands or if given a command name then the help
for that particular command\&.
.IP
.PP
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
Most command line options can be set using the configuration file as
well and the descriptions indicate the necessary configuration option
to set\&.
.PP 
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Help; display a help message and then quit\&.
.IP "\fB\-y, \-\-assumeyes\fP"
Assume yes; assume that the answer to any question which would be asked 
is yes\&.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBassumeyes\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-assumeno\fP"
Assume no; assume that the answer to any question which would be asked 
is no\&. This option overrides assumeyes, but is still subject to alwaysprompt.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBassumeno\fP
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-config=[config file]\fP" 
Specifies the config file location - can take HTTP and FTP URLs and local file
paths\&.
.br
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fP" 
Run without output.  Note that you likely also want to use \-y\&.
.br
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP" 
Run with a lot of debugging output\&.
.br
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-debuglevel=[number]\fP" 
Sets the debugging level to [number] \- turns up or down the amount of things that are printed\&. Practical range: 0 - 10
.br
Configuration Option: \fBdebuglevel\fP
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-errorlevel=[number]\fP" 
Sets the error level to [number] Practical range 0 \- 10. 0 means print only critical errors about which you must be told. 1 means print all errors, even ones that are not overly important. 1+ means print more errors (if any) \-e 0 is good for cron jobs.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBerrorlevel\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-rpmverbosity=[name]\fP" 
Sets the debug level to [name] for rpm scriptlets. 'info' is the default, other
options are: 'critical', 'emergency', 'error', 'warn' and 'debug'.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBrpmverbosity\fP
.IP "\fB\-R, \-\-randomwait=[time in minutes]\fP" 
Sets the maximum amount of time yum will wait before performing a command \- it randomizes over the time.
.IP "\fB\-C, \-\-cacheonly\fP" 
Tells yum to run entirely from system cache - does not download or
update any headers unless it has to to perform the requested action.
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fP" 
Reports the \fByum\fP version number and installed package versions for
everything in history_record_packages (can be added to by plugins).
.IP "\fB\-\-showduplicates\fP" 
Doesn't limit packages to their latest versions in the info, list and search
commands (will also affect plugins which use the doPackageLists() API).
.IP "\fB\-\-installroot=root\fP" 
Specifies an alternative installroot, relative to which all packages will be
installed. Think of this like doing "chroot <root> yum" except using
\-\-installroot allows yum to work before the chroot is created.
Note: You may also want to use the option \-\-releasever=/ when creating the
installroot as otherwise the $releasever value is taken from the rpmdb within
the installroot (and thus. will be empty, before creation).
.br
Configuration Option: \fBinstallroot\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-enablerepo=repoidglob\fP"
Enables specific repositories by id or glob that have been disabled in the 
configuration file using the enabled=0 option.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBenabled\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-disablerepo=repoidglob\fP"
Disables specific repositories by id or glob. 
.br
Configuration Option: \fBenabled\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-obsoletes\fP"
This option only has affect for an update, it enables \fByum\fP\'s obsoletes
processing logic. For more information see the \fBupdate\fP command above.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBobsoletes\fP
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-exclude=package\fP"
Exclude a specific package by name or glob from all repositories, so yum works
as if that package was never in the repositories.
This is commonly used so a package isn't upgraded or installed accidentally, but
can be used to remove packages in any way that "yum list" will show packages.

Can be disabled using --disableexcludes.
Configuration Option: \fBexclude\fP, \fBincludepkgs\fP
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-color=[always|auto|never]\fP"
Display colorized output automatically, depending on the output terminal,
always (using ANSI codes) or never. Note that some commands (Eg. list and info)
will do a little extra work when color is enabled.
Configuration Option: \fBcolor\fP
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-disableexcludes=[all|main|repoid]\fP"
Disable the excludes defined in your config files. Takes one of three options:
.br
all == disable all excludes
.br
main == disable excludes defined in [main] in yum.conf
.br
repoid == disable excludes defined for that repo
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-disableincludes=[all|repoid]\fP"
Disable the includes defined in your config files. Takes one of two options:
.br
all == disable all includes
.br
repoid == disable includes defined for that repo
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-disableplugin=plugin\fP"
Run with one or more plugins disabled, the argument is a comma separated list
of wildcards to match against plugin names.
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-noplugins\fP"
Run with all plugins disabled.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBplugins\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-nogpgcheck\fP"
Run with GPG signature checking disabled.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBgpgcheck\fP
.IP "\fB\-\-skip\-broken\fP"
Resolve depsolve problems by removing packages that are causing problems
from the transaction.
.br
Configuration Option: \fBskip_broken\fP
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-releasever=version\fP"
Pretend the current release version is the given string. This is very useful
when combined with \-\-installroot. You can also use \-\-releasever=/ to take
the releasever information from outside the installroot.
Note that with the default upstream cachedir, of /var/cache/yum, using this
option will corrupt your cache (and you can use $releasever in your cachedir
configuration to stop this).
.PP 
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-tolerant\fP"
This option makes yum go slower, checking for things that shouldn't be possible
making it more tolerant of external errors.
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-downloadonly\fP"
Don't update, just download. This is done in the background, so the yum lock is released for other operations. This can also be chosen by typing 'd'ownloadonly
at the transaction confirmation prompt.
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-downloaddir=directory\fP"
Specifies an alternate directory to store packages.
.br
.IP "\fB\-\-setopt=option=value\fP"
Set any config option in yum config or repo files. For options in the global 
config just use: \-\-setopt=option=value for repo options use: \-\-setopt=repoid.option=value
.PP

.SH "LIST OPTIONS"
The following are the ways which you can invoke \fByum\fP in list
mode\&.  Note that all \fBlist\fP commands include information on the
version of the package\&.
.IP
.IP "\fBOUTPUT\fP"


The format of the output of yum list is:

name.arch [epoch:]version-release  repo or @installed-from-repo

.IP "\fByum list [all | glob_exp1] [glob_exp2] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List all available and installed packages\&.
.IP "\fByum list available [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List all packages in the yum repositories available to be installed\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fByum list updates [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List all packages with updates available in the yum repositories\&.
.IP 
.IP "\fByum list installed [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List the packages specified by \fIargs\fP\&.  If an argument does not
match the name of an available package, it is assumed to be a
shell\-style glob and any matches are printed\&.
.IP
.IP "\fByum list extras [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List the packages installed on the system that are not available in any yum
repository listed in the config file.
.IP
.IP "\fByum list distro-extras [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List the packages installed on the system that are not available, by name,
in any yum repository listed in the config file.
.IP
.IP "\fByum list obsoletes [glob_exp1] [\&.\&.\&.]\fP"
List the packages installed on the system that are obsoleted by packages
in any yum repository listed in the config file.
.IP
.IP "\fByum list recent\fP"
List packages recently added into the repositories. This is often not helpful,
but what you may really want to use is "yum updateinfo list new" although that
relies on updateinfo data from the repos.
.IP

.PP
.SH "SPECIFYING PACKAGE NAMES"
A package can be referred to for install, update, remove, list, info etc 
with any of the following as well as globs of any of the following:
.IP
.br
\fBname\fP
.br
\fBname.arch\fP
.br
\fBname-ver\fP
.br
\fBname-ver-rel\fP
.br
\fBname-ver-rel.arch\fP
.br
\fBname-epoch:ver-rel.arch\fP
.br
\fBepoch:name-ver-rel.arch\fP
.IP
For example: \fByum remove kernel-2.4.1-10.i686\fP
     this will remove this specific kernel-ver-rel.arch.
.IP
Or:          \fByum list available 'foo*'\fP 
     will list all available packages that match 'foo*'. (The single quotes will keep your shell from expanding the globs.)
.IP
.PP 
.SH "CLEAN OPTIONS"
The following are the ways which you can invoke \fByum\fP in clean
mode. Note that "all files" in the commands below means 
"all files in currently enabled repositories". 
If you want to also clean any (temporarily) disabled repositories you need to
use \fB\-\-enablerepo='*'\fP option.

.IP "\fByum clean expire-cache\fP"
Eliminate the local data saying when the metadata and mirrorlists were downloaded for each repo. This means yum will revalidate the cache for each repo. next time it is used. However if the cache is still valid, nothing significant was deleted.

.IP "\fByum clean packages\fP"
Eliminate any cached packages from the system.  Note that packages are not automatically deleted after they are downloaded.

.IP "\fByum clean headers\fP"
Eliminate all of the header files, which old versions of yum used for
dependency resolution.

.IP "\fByum clean metadata\fP"
Eliminate all of the files which yum uses to determine the remote
availability of packages. Using this option will force yum to download all the 
metadata the next time it is run.

.IP "\fByum clean dbcache\fP"
Eliminate the sqlite cache used for faster access to metadata.
Using this option will force yum to download the sqlite metadata the next time
it is run, or recreate the sqlite metadata if using an older repo.

.IP "\fByum clean rpmdb\fP"
Eliminate any cached data from the local rpmdb.

.IP "\fByum clean plugins\fP"
Tell any enabled plugins to eliminate their cached data.

.IP "\fByum clean all\fP"
Does all of the above.

.PP 
.SH "PLUGINS"
Yum can be extended through the use of plugins. A plugin is a Python ".py" file
which is installed in one of the directories specified by the \fBpluginpath\fP
option in yum.conf. For a plugin to work, the following conditions must be met:
.LP
1. The plugin module file must be installed in the plugin path as just
described.
.LP
2. The global \fBplugins\fP option in /etc/yum/yum.conf must be set to `1'.
.LP
3. A configuration file for the plugin must exist in
/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/<plugin_name>.conf and the \fBenabled\fR setting in this
file must set to `1'. The minimal content for such a configuration file is:
.IP
[main]
.br
enabled = 1
.LP
See the \fByum.conf(5)\fR man page for more information on plugin related
configuration options.

.PP
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/yum/yum.conf
/etc/yum/version-groups.conf
/etc/yum/repos.d/
/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/
/var/cache/yum/
.fi 

.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I pkcon (1)
.I yum.conf (5)
.I yum-updatesd (8)
.I package-cleanup (1)
.I repoquery (1)
.I yum-complete-transaction (1)
.I yumdownloader (1)
.I yum-utils (1)
.I yum-langpacks (1)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
http://yum.baseurl.org/wiki/Faq
yum search yum
.fi

.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
See the Authors file included with this program.
.fi

.PP
.SH "BUGS"
There of course aren't any bugs, but if you find any, you should first
consult the FAQ mentioned above and then email the mailing list:
yum@lists.baseurl.org or filed in bugzilla.
.fi
